# Finance Glossary

#### Accounts Payable (AP)
A company's short-term obligations to pay for goods and services it has received but has not yet paid for. It reflects the amount of money tht a Hypha owes to its suppliers, vendors, and creditors.

#### Accounts Receivable (AR)
The amount of money owed to a business by its customers or clients for goods sold or services provided on credit.

> Togther with recoverable cash, this is what is owed to Hypha


#### Assets
All the resources and items of value that the company owns. These include:
* Cash
* Cryptocurrency
* Accounts receivable and recoverable money
* Prepaid expenses
* Capital assets

#### Capital Assets
* Also known as "fixed assets" or "long-term assets", they are expected to provide benefits over an extended period of time, typically exceeding one year.
* They are not intended for resale in the normal course of business.
* They depreciate over time.
* Example: our servers at the data centre.

#### Cash
Money we hold in the bank.

#### Cryptocurrency
Cryptocurrency tokens we hold in our wallets.

#### Deferred income
* Also known as "deferred revenue" or "unearned revenue", this is income that a company has received but has not yet earned.
* Considered a liability on the balance sheet until the company fulfills its obligation by delivering the products or services.

#### Direct Costs
Also known as variable as "variable costs" or "prime costs", these are expenses that can be specifically and directly attributed to the production of a particular product, the delivery of a particular service, or a specific project.

### Expenditures
Money that a company spends or pays out in order to cover various costs, expenses, or investments. Expenditures can encompass a wide range of financial transactions and can be categorized into different types based on their purpose. 


#### Gross Profit
The profit a company earns after deducting the cost of goods sold (COGS) from its total revenue. It's a fundamental measure of a company's profitability, focusing specifically on the profitability of the company's core operations.

#### Liabilities
Debts, obligations, or financial responsibilities that Hypha owes to another party. They represent claims against a company's assets and are typically categorized on a company's balance sheet.

> What Hypha owes

#### Liquidity
How much money we have access to right now to pay expenses. This includes access to money we hold, but may not belong to us (e.g. credit cards).

#### Net Assets
The amount of money Hypha holds in its Members, Reserve, and Treasury funds.

#### Prepaid Expenses
Something that has been paid in advance: we either get the goods, services, or our money back.

#### Recoverable Cash
Money we paid that we will get back (e.g., HST).

> Together with AR, this is what is owed to Hypha

#### Revenue
The total income generated by a Hypha from its primary activities, such as the sale of goods, provision of services, or other sources of income.
> How much Hypha billed

#### Statement of Financial Position
* Also known as a "balance sheet", it's the snapshot of a company's financial positon at a specific point in time.
* It helps stakeholders assess the company's financial health and its ability to meet its financial obligations

#### Wages Payable
How much the company owes to its employees for work they have performed but has not yet been paid.